---
layout: post
title: "Is this the beginning of the beginning?"
date: 2016-10-10
---

For a long time now, I've been having ideas. Ideas about books to write; ideas about art projects to create; ideas regarding the complex, multidimensional state of the universe and the insignificant yet dynamic lifestyles of its denizens. However, I was faced with a paradox: the longer and harder I thought, and the deeper and more layered the ideas became, the harder it was to put any of these ideas into tangible forms. Recently, my new friend Simon Ever-Hale introduced me to something called *generative art*, which is an algorithmic, computer-based art form that revolves around letting mathematical simulations generate images for you. To me, this introduction was a crepuscular ray beaming down, through layers of beautiful purple clouds, directly on to my forehead. Here was a way to ideate, and ideate, and think, and think, and then sit back and let my ideas and thoughts create something on their own. Here was an application of many of my imperfect and impermanent thoughts, the outlet I needed desperately. I learned how to create a double -rod pendulum simulation, something I've been wanting to do for months because of how perfectly they model chaos theory and deterministically random motion, by scrounging the internet for equations and troubleshooting in a new development environment called Processing. Somehow, building a simulator for these silly little pendulums has provided my brain with some grounding. Since then my urge to create has taken off. This website, which until about a week ago was little more than a static HTML resume and some shitty browser-resizing shenanigans for support staff prom (shoutout Deanna Bessy for being the artist to my blank canvas that night), has been at the forefront of my recent rennaissance. If I'm going to rekindle the fire beneath my starry sky and return to the crafting table, I want to have a place to put things. And I want that place to be something that I'm a little bit proud of, I suppose. That part is still to come. For now, I'm content to be creating *something*. However, contentment is something I can no longer settle for.

I'm going to be using this site as a sort of blog, sort of host for my resume, and sort of platform to share cool generative art pictures (like this one!) 
![Image of black-and-white pendulum trace]
(/images/clock_eye.png)
as I learn the process of Processing, as well as photographs from my time abroad, stretching forward into the oceanic unknown. Hopefully this is the beginning of the beginning of a life where I push myself a little bit harder. 
